
PYOTR PETROVITCH STRIZHIN, the nephew of Madame Ivanov, the colonel’s
widow the man whose new goloshes were stolen last year, came home from a christening party at two o’clock in the morning. To avoid waking the
household he took off his things in the lobby, made his way on tiptoe to
his room, holding his breath, and began getting ready for bed without
lighting a candle.

Strizhin leads a sober and regular life. He has a sanctimonious
expression of face, he reads nothing but religious and edifying books,
but at the christening party, in his delight that Lyubov Spiridonovna
had passed through her confinement successfully, he had permitted
himself to drink four glasses of vodka and a glass of wine, the taste of
which suggested something midway between vinegar and castor oil.
Spirituous liquors are like sea water and glory: the more you imbibe of
them the greater your thirst. And now as he undressed, Strizhin was
aware of an overwhelming craving for drink.

After some hesitation, overcoming his fears, Strizhin went to the
cupboard. Cautiously opening the door he felt in the right hand corner
for a bottle and poured out a wine glassful, put the bottle back in its
place, then, making the sign of the cross, drank it off. And immediately
something like a miracle took place. 

The thought that he had poisoned himself threw him into a cold shiver,
then into a fever. That it was really poison that he had taken was
proved not only by the smell in the room but also by the burning taste
in his mouth, the flashes before his eyes, the ringing in his head, and
the colicky pain in his stomach. Feeling the approach of death and not
buoying himself up with false hopes, he wanted to say good-bye to those
nearest to him, and made his way to Dashenka’s bedroom.