
IN the low pitched, crooked little hut of Artyom, the forester, two men
were sitting under the big dark ikon Artyom himself, a short and lean
peasant with a wrinkled, aged looking face and a little beard that grew
out of his neck, and a well grown young man in a new crimson shirt and
big wading boots, who had been out hunting and come in for the night.
They were sitting on a bench at a little three legged table on which a
tallow candle stuck into a bottle was lazily burning.

“I tell you what, good Christian,” said Artyom in a hoarse little tenor
half-whisper, staring with unbAlinking, scared-looking eyes at the
hunter. “I am not afraid of wolves or bears, or wild beasts of any sort,
but I am afraid of man. You can save yourself from beasts with a gun or
some other weapon, but you have no means of saving yourself from a
wicked man.”

“I’ve been forester, my lad, for thirty years, and I couldn’t tell you
what I have had to put up with from wicked men. There have been lots and
lots of them here. The hut’s on a track, it’s a cart road, and that
brings them, the devils. Every sort of ruffian turns up, and without
taking off his cap or making the sign of the cross, bursts straight in
upon one with: ‘Give us some bread, you old so and so.’ And where am I
to get bread for him? What claim has he? Am I a millionaire to feed
every drunkard that passes? "

At that moment something began growling under the bench: the growl was
followed by a hiss. Artyom started, drew up his legs, and looked
enquiringly at the hunter.