
AT the district town of N. in the cinnamon coloured government house in
which the Zemstvo, the sessional meetings of the justices of the peace,
the Rural Board, the Liquor Board, the Military Board, and many others
sit by turns, the Circuit Court was in session on one of the dull days
of autumn. Of the above-mentioned cinnamon-coloured house a local
official had wittily observed

But, as the saying is, “Too many cooks spoil the broth,” and probably
that is why the house strikes, oppresses, and overwhelms a fresh
unofficial visitor with its dismal barrack like appearance, its decrepit
condition, and the complete absence of any kind of comfort, external or
internal. Even on the brightest spring days it seems wrapped in a dense
shade, and on clear moonlight nights, when the trees and the little
dwelling-houses merged in one blur of shadow seem plunged in quiet
slumber, it alone absurdly and inappropriately towers, an oppressive
mass of stone, above the modest landscape, spoils the general harmony,
and keeps sleepless vigil as though it could not escape from burdensome
memories of past unforgiven sins. Inside it is like a barn and extremely
unattractive. It is strange to see how readily these elegant lawyers,
members of committees, and marshals of nobility, who in their own homes
will make a scene over the slightest fume from the stove, or stain on
the floor, resign themselves here to whirring ventilation wheels, the
disgusting smell of fumigating candles, and the filthy, forever
perspiring walls.
