
IN the hospital yard there stands a small lodge surrounded by a perfect
forest of burdocks, nettles, and wild hemp. Its roof is rusty, the
chimney is tumbling down, the steps at the front-door are rotting away
and overgrown with grass, and there are only traces left of the stucco.
The front of the lodge faces the hospital at the back it looks out into
the open country, from which it is separated by the grey hospital fence
with nails on it. 

And of all the inhabitants of Ward No. 6, he is the only one who is
allowed to go out of the lodge, and even out of the yard into the
street. He has enjoyed this privilege for years, probably because he is
an old inhabitant of the hospital a quiet, harmless imbecile, the
buffoon of the town, where people are used to seeing him surrounded by
boys and dogs. In his wretched gown, in his absurd night-cap, and in
slippers, sometimes with bare legs and even without trousers, he walks
about the streets, stopping at the gates and little shops, and begging
for a copper. In one place they will give him some kvass, in another
some bread, in another a copper, so that he generally goes back to the
ward feeling rich and well fed. Everything that he brings back Nikita
takes from him for his own benefit. The soldier does this roughly,
angrily turning the Jewâ€™s pockets inside out, and calling God to witness
that he will not let him go into the street again, and that breach of
the regulations is worse to him than anything in the world.
