
ON the first of February every year, St. Trifon’s day, there is an
extraordinary commotion on the estate of Madame Zavzyatov, the widow of
Trifon Lvovitch, the late marshal of the district. On that day, the
nameday of the deceased marshal, the widow Lyubov Petrovna has a requiem
service celebrated in his memory, and after the requiem a thanksgiving
to the Lord. The whole district assembles for the service. There you
will see Hrumov the present marshal, Marfutkin, the president of the
Zemstvo, Potrashkov, the permanent member of the Rural Board, the two
justices of the peace of the district, the police captain, Krinolinov,
two police superintendents, the district doctor, Dvornyagin, smelling of
iodoform, all the landowners, great and small, and so on. There are
about fifty people assembled in all.

Precisely at twelve o’clock, the visitors, with long faces, make their
way from all the rooms to the big hall. There are carpets on the floor
and their steps are noiseless, but the solemnity of the occasion makes
them instinctively walk on tip toe, holding out their hands to balance
themselves. In the hall everything is already prepared. Father Yevmeny,
a little old man in a high faded cap, puts on his black vestments.
Konkordiev, the deacon, already in his vestments, and as red as a crab,
is noiselessly turning over the leaves of his missal and putting slips
of paper in it. At the door leading to the vestibule, Luka, the
sacristan, puffing out his cheeks and making round eyes, blows up the
censer. The hall is gradually filled with bluish transparent smoke and
the smell of incense.
